README.md, before:

## ONEX Drift Control

Centralized, versioned **governance + enforcement** for preventing cross-repo drift across the ONEX ecosystem.

### What this repo is (as-is intent)

- **Schemas** for:
  - `day_close.yaml` (daily reconciliation artifact)
  - `contracts/<ticket_id>.yaml` (ticket contract / acceptance spec)
- **Design docs** describing the enforcement model and rollout phases.
- (Later) **tooling** to validate contracts against diffs and enforce merge gates in CI.

### Naming Conventions

All schema models in this repo **MUST** follow `omnibase_core` naming conventions:
- **Model classes**: `Model<Name>` (e.g., `ModelDayClose`, `ModelTicketContract`)
- **Model files**: `model_<name>.py` (e.g., `model_day_close.py`, `model_ticket_contract.py`)
- **Enum classes**: `Enum<Name>` (e.g., `EnumInterfaceSurface`, `EnumDriftType`)
- **Enum files**: `enum_<name>.py` (e.g., `enum_interface_surface.py`, `enum_drift_type.py`)

See: `omnibase_core/docs/conventions/NAMING_CONVENTIONS.md` for full details.

### Development Setup

1. **Install Poetry** (if not already installed):
   ```bash
   curl -sSL https://install.python-poetry.org | python3 -
   ```

2. **Install dependencies**:
   ```bash
   poetry install
   ```

3. **Install pre-commit hooks** (requires Poetry environment):
   ```bash
   poetry run pre-commit install
   poetry run pre-commit install --hook-type pre-push
   ```

   **Note**: Pre-commit hooks require Poetry to be installed and dependencies available, as they use `poetry run` to execute ruff, mypy, etc.

4. **Run tests**:
   ```bash
   poetry run pytest
   ```

### Where to start

- `docs/design/DESIGN_DRIFT_CONTROL_SYSTEM.md`
- `docs/design/DECISION_LOG.md`
- `docs/planning/IMPLEMENTATION_PLAN.md`

Commit message:

docs: add CI failure recovery instructions and improve CI job dependencies
- Add Schema Export section to README with CI failure recovery steps
- Make schema-determinism job depend on test job (only check if tests pass)
- Addresses review feedback from PR #5

README.md, after:

## ONEX Drift Control

Centralized, versioned **governance + enforcement** for preventing cross-repo drift across the ONEX ecosystem.

### What this repo is (as-is intent)

- **Schemas** for:
  - `day_close.yaml` (daily reconciliation artifact)
  - `contracts/<ticket_id>.yaml` (ticket contract / acceptance spec)
- **Design docs** describing the enforcement model and rollout phases.
- (Later) **tooling** to validate contracts against diffs and enforce merge gates in CI.

### Naming Conventions

All schema models in this repo **MUST** follow `omnibase_core` naming conventions:
- **Model classes**: `Model<Name>` (e.g., `ModelDayClose`, `ModelTicketContract`)
- **Model files**: `model_<name>.py` (e.g., `model_day_close.py`, `model_ticket_contract.py`)
- **Enum classes**: `Enum<Name>` (e.g., `EnumInterfaceSurface`, `EnumDriftType`)
- **Enum files**: `enum_<name>.py` (e.g., `enum_interface_surface.py`, `enum_drift_type.py`)

See: `omnibase_core/docs/conventions/NAMING_CONVENTIONS.md` for full details.

### Development Setup

1. **Install Poetry** (if not already installed):
   ```bash
   curl -sSL https://install.python-poetry.org | python3 -
   ```

2. **Install dependencies**:
   ```bash
   poetry install
   ```

3. **Install pre-commit hooks** (requires Poetry environment):
   ```bash
   poetry run pre-commit install
   poetry run pre-commit install --hook-type pre-push
   ```

   **Note**: Pre-commit hooks require Poetry to be installed and dependencies available, as they use `poetry run` to execute ruff, mypy, etc.

4. **Run tests**:
   ```bash
   poetry run pytest
   ```

### Schema Export

The repository includes a JSON schema export script that generates JSON schemas from Pydantic models:

```bash
poetry run python scripts/export_json_schema.py
```

**If CI Schema Determinism Check Fails:**
If the CI job `schema-determinism` fails, it means the exported schemas are out of sync with the Pydantic models. To fix:

1. Run the export script locally:
   ```bash
   poetry run python scripts/export_json_schema.py
   ```

2. Commit the updated schema files:
   ```bash
   git add schemas/
   git commit -m "chore: update exported JSON schemas"
   ```

### Where to start

- `docs/design/DESIGN_DRIFT_CONTROL_SYSTEM.md`
- `docs/design/DECISION_LOG.md`
- `docs/planning/IMPLEMENTATION_PLAN.md`
